Good afternoon.\nDear compatriots.\nToday, I have just informed the Head of State of the holding, tomorrow, of an extraordinary Council of Ministers, to decree the State of Alarm throughout our country, throughout Spain, during the next 15 days.\nThe State of Alarm is an instrument of our Rule of Law, enshrined in our Constitution, to face crises as extraordinary as the one that the world and our country are unfortunately suffering.\nThe health and social emergency generated by the coronavirus known as COVID 19, creates extraordinary circumstances such as those that the Law contemplates to provide the Government of Spain with legal resources, also extraordinary.\nIn the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, the extraordinary Council of Ministers will adapt a set of exceptional decisions to the under the declaration of the State of Alarm that will be decreed tomorrow.\nThese decisions will be aimed at mobilizing all the resources of the con together with the State to better protect the health of all citizens. Economic resources, health resources, both public and private, both civil and military, for the protection of all citizens, in particular those who are most vulnerable to the virus due to their age or other previous ailments. And also to respond to the social and economic emergency with the maximum agility and forcefulness.\nWe want the maximum, efficient and guaranteed coordination of resources from all public administrations and their best functioning. The Government of Spain is going to protect all citizens and is going to guarantee adequate living conditions to stop the pandemic with the least possible impact.\nNaturally, I am about to inform the Congress of Deputies immediately, I have already informed the president of Congress, I have also conveyed this decision to the main political forces. I am going to do the same with the regional presidents with whom I will have a telephone conversation this afternoon. To all of them, I would like to convey in advance my appreciation for the work they have been doing, each one from their institutions and their responsibilities. I am also grateful for your understanding of these decisions that are aimed at combating an emergency that threatens the health and well-being of all, and that does not attend to internal or external borders.\nWe are only in the first phase of a fight against virus that all the countries of the world are fighting, and in particular our continent, Europe. As I said at the beginning of the week, very hard weeks await us. We said that difficult days would come and we took measures at the height of that difficulty. And it cannot be ruled out that in the next week we will unfortunately reach more than 10,000 affected.\nAll the efforts of the international, national and regional health authorities are aimed at preventing the virus from spreading too quickly, in order to help to patients who, due to their age or previous ailments, are more vulnerable and require the necessary hospital care.\nWe all have a task and a mission in the coming days, in the coming weeks, and it is not a minor one. The first line is made up of health professionals. Our shield against the virus. With their dedication, with their sacrifice, they protect us all and deserve everyone's recognition and gratitude.\nThe mission of the national and regional health authorities is also clear; provide professionals with the means to carry out their work and maintain and reinforce the extraordinary coordination they have developed in recent weeks. defending; must be protected against infection as much as possible. Avoid contacts and exposure in public spaces at all costs.\nI would also like to address young people, who also have a decisive mission. It is true that due to their vitality they can feel sheltered from the most severe effects of the virus, but they can act as transmitters to other much more vulnerable people nearby. Their collaboration, the collaboration of young people, is decisive in cutting off contagion and that is why they must limit contacts and maintain social distance.\nAnd all of us, of course, have a personal duty; strictly follow the instructions of the experts and work together to defeat the virus with the utmost responsibility and absolute social discipline.\nI have been saying this throughout this week; From the Government of Spain we will do what is necessary, when it is necessary and where it is necessary.\nThe declaration of the State of Alarm allows us to mobilize, to the maximum, the material resources to combat the virus. But, you are also going to allow me that there is a fundamental resource, which is beyond any law or decree and to which I would like to appeal directly to the compatriots. Victory depends on each one of us, in our home, in our family, at work, in our neighborhood. Heroism also consists of washing your hands, staying at home and protecting yourself, to protect all citizens.\nIt will take weeks, it will be very hard and difficult, but we are going to stop the virus. That is sure. With unity, responsibility and social discipline. We will overcome this emergency by relying on the advice of science and relying on all the resources of the State. But it is also certain that we will achieve it sooner and with the least possible human, economic and social damage if we do it together and each one of us fulfills our duty. We will stop this virus together. Thank you very much. Good afternoon.